---
title: Writing Clear and Informative Changelogs
description: Changelogs serve as a crucial tool for keeping users informed about the changes made to a software project. A well-written changelog can enhance transparency, improve user experience, and streamline the update process.
publishDate: '2024-01-04'
slug: keepachangelog
cover: '../img/2024/keepachangelog.png'
facebookPost: https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=875214704304230&set=pb.100054471250325.-2207520000&type=3
tags:
  - Changelogs
  - Lucide
  - Iconify
---

Changelogs serve as a crucial tool for keeping users informed about the changes made to a software project. A well-written changelog can enhance transparency, improve user experience, and streamline the update process. Here's a comprehensive guide to crafting clear and informative changelogs:

## Versioning

1.  **Major**: Use a major version number when the update introduces breaking changes that may require significant modifications to existing code.
2.  **Minor**: Use a minor version number for updates that introduce new features or enhancements without breaking existing functionality.
3.  **Patch**: Use a patch version number for updates that primarily focus on bug fixes and minor improvements without introducing new features or breaking changes.

## Changelog Structure

1.  **Unreleased**: Create an "Unreleased" section to track changes that have been made but are not yet part of a released version. This helps maintain a clear record of ongoing development.
2.  **Categorized Changes**: Organize changes into clear categories:

    - **Added**: Highlight new features or functionalities introduced in the update.
    - **Changed**: Describe modifications made to existing features or functionalities.
    - **Deprecated**: List features that are scheduled for removal in future updates.
    - **Removed**: Indicate features that have been removed from the current version.
    - **Fixed**: Document bug fixes and error resolutions implemented in the update.
    - **Security**: Address any security vulnerabilities or enhancements related to the update.

Read more at [keepachangelog.com](https://keepachangelog.com)
