---
title: Efficient Task Management with Clickup • 5-Minute Daily Team Meetings
description: I often explain to my colleagues that work is like a monkey on our shoulders that we need to manage and then pass on to others until it's completed. At all times, we need to know who has the monkey.
publishDate: '2024-04-16'
slug: clickup
cover: '../img/2024/clickup.png'
facebookPost: https://www.facebook.com/MennWebs/posts/pfbid0xAsQoPWd2tvZhsaMSASdGXHNmhcpfyd48vYnzTrpS7RrTm7JwVDcY8ShKMPB1Z3Vl
tags:
  - ClickUp
  - Meeting
  - SaaS
---

## The Foundation of Teamwork:

I often explain to my colleagues that work is like a monkey on our shoulders that we need to manage and then pass on to others until it's completed. At all times, we need to know who has the monkey. [**Old Post**](/stories/whos-got-the-monkey/)

## Task Management Tools:

Numerous tools can assist in task delegation, including Asana, Trello, Basecamp, and my team's preferred choice, Clickup.

## Clickup: Streamlining Task Management:

1. **Create Projects (Folders):** Define the project scope and break it down into manageable tasks.

2. **List Tasks:** Clearly outline each task, including its purpose and specific deliverables.

3. **Assign Responsibilities (Assignee):** Assign each task to a single individual for clear accountability.

4. **Set Deadlines (Dates):** Establish clear due dates for each task, ensuring timely completion.

5. **Task Progression:** Track task progress from initiation to completion.

## Clickup's Summary Feature:

Clickup provides a comprehensive overview of each team member's workload, highlighting upcoming deadlines and deliverables.

## Efficient Team Meetings:

1. **Share Workload Snapshots:** Before meetings, team members share screenshots of their Clickup dashboards, outlining their assigned tasks for the day.

2. **1-3 Tasks per Person:** Aim for 1-3 tasks per person to maintain focus and efficiency.

3. **Daily Goal Setting:** During meetings, each team member briefly outlines their daily goals and any potential challenges.

4. **Open Communication:** Encourage open communication and collaboration to address any issues promptly.

5. **Short Meetings:** Keep meetings concise, typically around 5 minutes for teams of up to 10 people.

## Clickup: Free Trial:

Experience the benefits of Clickup with their free trial available at [clickup.com](https://clickup.com/).
