---
title: MetaBox - A Sleek ACF Alternative for WordPress
description: ACF has long been considered the best plugin for creating custom post types and custom fields in WordPress. However, MetaBox, a plugin created by Vietnamese developers, has also been around for a long time and offers a compelling alternative.
publishDate: '2024-04-04'
slug: metabox
cover: '../img/2024/metabox.png'
facebookPost: https://www.facebook.com/MennWebs/posts/pfbid0JapEeKeut2Zfs6RSYM9k7d3hPv3w2eP4aZ7F3taQdroS8abkJKwrGgVsabz3fSGFl
tags:
  - WordPress
  - Plugin
  - MetaBox
---

ACF has long been considered the best plugin for creating custom post types and custom fields in WordPress. However, MetaBox, a plugin created by Vietnamese developers, has also been around for a long time and offers a compelling alternative.

While MetaBox's UI may not be as polished as ACF's, it offers several advantages, including:

- **Improved performance:** MetaBox is designed to be more efficient than ACF, especially when dealing with large amounts of data.
- **Flexible field display:** MetaBox allows you to display fields in a variety of ways, including tables and charts.
- **Database optimization:** MetaBox can create new tables in the database to store custom field data, which can help to improve performance and reduce database bloat.

## Here are some of MetaBox's most impressive features:

- **Code generation:** MetaBox automatically generates code for you to use in your WordPress theme or plugin.
- **Cloneable fields:** MetaBox doesn't have a repeater field, but it does have a cloneable field feature that allows you to easily create new instances of a field.
- **Advanced taxonomy:** MetaBox supports hierarchical taxonomies, so you can create nested categories and tags.
- **Frontend forms:** MetaBox can generate forms for the frontend of your WordPress site, so you can collect data from users.
- **Custom admin columns:** MetaBox allows you to add custom columns to the WordPress admin screen.
- **Library code:** Both the free and pro versions of MetaBox come with library code that you can use in your own plugins and themes.
- **Lifetime licenses:** MetaBox offers lifetime licenses for its pro version.

## Why am I interested in MetaBox?

There are a few reasons,

- **Performance:** I've found that using ACF with tens of thousands of posts can cause the database to become bloated and slow down. MetaBox, on the other hand, seems to be much more performant.
- **Flexibility:** I'm impressed with the flexibility of MetaBox, especially its ability to create custom tables and display fields in different ways.
- **Potential for themes and plugins:** I believe that MetaBox has the potential to be used to create powerful themes and plugins. I'm particularly interested in using it to create a custom eCommerce system.

If you're interested in learning more about MetaBox, you can visit the plugin's website at [metabox.io](https://metabox.io/).
